 <!-- this document was created from rtf source by rtftohtml version
2.7.3 --> sir-c description    
 what is sir-c/x-sar? 
sir-c/x-sar stands for  spaceborne imaging radar-c/x-band synthetic aperture
radar. sir-c/x-sar is an imaging radar system scheduled for launch aboard the
nasa space shuttle in 1994. it consists of a radar antenna structure and
associated radar system hardware that is designed to fit inside the space
shuttle's cargo bay. on take-off, the cargo bay doors are closed as seen in the
graphic on the next page. after the space shuttle has reached a stable earth
orbit, the cargo bay doors will be opened , the antenna structure will be
deployed, and sir-c/x-sar will be switched on, to begin using its
state-of-the-art radar technology to image the earth's surface. radar images
generated by sir-c/x-sar will be used by scientists to help understand some of
the processes which affect the earth's environment, such as deforestation in
the amazon, desertification south of the sahara, and soil moisture retention in
the mid-west. 
 deploying sir-c  
space shuttle doors closed 
space shuttle doors open, showing sir-c/x-sar  antenna 
 the sir-c/x-sar project 
	sir-c/x-sar is a joint project of the national aeronautics and space
administration (nasa), the german space agency (dara) and the italian space
agency (asi). it is the next step in a series of spaceborne imaging radars,
beginning with seasat in 1978, continuing with sir-a (1981), germany's
microwave remote sensing experiment (1983), and sir-b (1984). it is a precursor
to the earth observing system (eos) imaging radar system planned for the end of
the decade.  
 science objectives 
	sir-c/x-sar's unique contributions to earth observation and monitoring are its
capability to measure, from space, the radar signature of the surface at three
different wavelengths, and to make measurements for different polarizations at
two of those wavelengths. sir-c image data will help scientists understand the
physics behind some of the phenomena seen in radar images at just one
wavelength/polarization, such as those produced by seasat. investigators on the
sir-c/x-sar science team will use the radar image data from sir-c/x-sar to make
measurements of the following: 
 vegetation type, extent and deforestation 
 soil moisture content 
 ocean dynamics, wave and surface wind speeds and directions 
 volcanism and tectonic activity 
 soil erosion and desertification 
 sir-c/x-sar instrument description 
	the sir-c/x-sar antenna structure actually consists of three individual
antennas, one operating at l-band (23.5cm wavelength), one at c-band (5.8cm
wavelength) and the third at x-band (3cm wavelength). the l-band and c-band
antennas are constructed from separate panels that can measure both horizontal
and vertical polarizations. 
	the sir-c/x-sar antenna is the most massive piece of hardware (at a total of
10,500 kilograms) ever assembled at the jet propulsion laboratory, and measures
12 meters by 4 meters. the sir-c instrument was built by jpl and the ball
communication systems division for nasa and provides the l-band and c-band
measurements at different polarizations. the l-band and c-band antennas employ
phased array technology, which allows the antenna beam pointing to be adjusted
electronically. the x-sar  instrument is built by the dornier and  alenia
spazio companies for dara and asi and operates at a single frequency, x-band.
the x-sar antenna is a slotted waveguide type, which uses a mechanical tilt to
change the beam pointing direction.  
 sir-c/x-sar image data 
	during a week-long shuttle flight, sir-c/x-sar will image an area of roughly
50 million square kilometers of the earth's surface. this corresponds to a
total of 50 hours of data. the peak data rate will be 225 megabits (or
225,000,000 bits) per second. the data collected will be processed into images
with resolution selectable from 10 to 200 meters. the width of the area mapped
out by the radar will vary from 15 to 90 kilometers, depending on how the radar
is operated, and the direction in which the antenna beams are pointing. data
from sir-c/x-sar will be used to develop automatic techniques for extracting
information from radar image data, in preparation for the eos sar mission later
in the decade. 
this schematic diagram shows the sir-c/x-sar antennas illuminating an area on
the ground, and mapping out a swath as the shuttle moves forward. the area
shown is a seasat image of los angeles, california. north is to the right of
the image shown. 
 more about sir-c/x-sar 
	the shuttle imaging radar-c and x-band synthetic aperture radar (sir-c/x-sar)
is a cooperative space shuttle experiment between the national aeronautics and
space administration (nasa), the german space agency (dara), and the italian
space agency (asi).  the experiment is the next step forward in nasa's
spaceborne imaging radar (sir) program that began with the seasat synthetic
aperture radar (sar) in 1978, and continued with sir-a in 1981 and sir-b in
1984. the program will eventually lead to topsat, a mission to measure
topography globally, and the earth observing system (eos) sar later in this
decade.  the program also benefits from experience gained with the magellan
mission to venus, other international spaceborne radar programs (e.g. ers-1,
jers-1), and prototype aircraft sensors such as the jpl airborne sar
(airsar). 
	sir-c will provide increased capability over seasat, sir-a, and sir-b by
acquiring digital images simultaneously at two microwave wavelengths
([[lambda]]): l- band ([[lambda]] = 23.5 cm) and c-band ([[lambda]] = 5.8 cm).
these vertically- and horizontally-polarized transmitted waves will be received
on two separate channels, so that sir-c will provide images of the magnitude of
radar backscatter for four polarization combinations: hh
(horizontally-transmitted, horizontally-received), vv (vertically-transmitted,
vertically-received), hv, and vh; and also data on the relative phase
difference between the hh, vv, vh, and hv returns.  this allows derivation of
the complete scattering matrix of a scene on a pixel by pixel basis.  from this
scattering matrix, every polarization configuration (linear, circular or
elliptical) can be generated during ground processing.  the radar polarimetric
data will yield more detailed information about the surface geometric
structure, vegetation cover, and subsurface discontinuities than image
brightness alone.   
	germany's imaging radar program started with the microwave remote sensing
experiment (mrse) flown aboard the shuttle.  this x-band radar was flown on the
first spacelab mission in 1983.  the program was continued by development of
the x-sar, for which cooperation with italy was initiated.  x-sar, will operate
at x-band ([[lambda]] = 3.1 cm) with vv polarization, resulting in a
three-frequency capability for the total sir-c/x-sar system.  because radar
backscatter is most strongly influenced by objects comparable in size to the
radar wavelength, this multi-frequency capability will provide information
about the earth's surface over a wide range of scales not discernible with
previous single-wavelength experiments. 
 sir-c/x-sar instrumentation 
	sir-c will provide multi-frequency, multi-polarization radar data.  the sir-c
instrument is composed of several subsystems: the antenna array, the
transmitter, the receivers, the data-handling subsystem, and the ground sar
processor.  the antenna is composed of two planar arrays, one for l-band and
one for c-band.  each array is composed of a uniform grid of dual-polarized
microstrip antenna radiators, with each polarization port fed by a separate
corporate feed network.  the overall size of the sir-c antenna is 12.0 x 3.7
meters and consists of three leaves each divided into four subpanels.  
 model of the sir-c/x-sar antenna  
	unlike previous sir missions, the sir-c radar beam is formed from hundreds of
small low power solid state transmitters embedded in the surface of the radar
antenna.  by properly phasing the energy from these transmitters, the beam can
be electronically steered in the range direction +/-23deg. from the nominal
40deg. off nadir position without physically moving the large radar antenna.
this feature will enable images to be acquired over a wide range of incidence
angles.   
	x-sar will provide vv polarization images using a passive slotted waveguide
antenna measuring 12.0 x 0.4 meters.  other x-sar components include a
traveling wave tube as transmitter, an exciter, receiver, and data handling
subsystem.  a mechanical  tilt mechanism will point the x-sar antenna to angles
between 15 and 60deg., in the same direction as the l-band and c-band beams.
	both sir-c and x-sar can be operated as either stand alone radars or together.
roll and yaw maneuvers of the shuttle will allow data to be acquired on either
side of the shuttle nadir (ground) track.  the width of the imaged swath on the
ground varies from 15 to 90 kilometers (9 to 56 miles) depending on the
orientation of the antenna beams and the operational mode. table 1 presents a
summary of the sir-c/x-sar system characteristics. 
 table 1:  sir-c/x-sar system characteristics  
   parameter  	l-band  	c-band  	x-band  
  wavelength  	0.235 m	  0.058 m	  0.031 m	  
  swath width  	15 to 90 km  	15 to 90 km	  15 to 40 km  
  pulse length	  33.8, 16.9, 8.5 us  	33.8, 16.9, 8.5 us  	40 us  
  data rate  	90 mbits/s	  90 mbits/s	  45 mbits/s  
  data format  	8,4 bits/word	  8,4 bits/word	  8,4 bits/word  
    	(8,4) bfpq	  (8,4) bfpq	  (8,4) bfpq  
bfpq = block floating point quantization, a form of data compression from 8
bits per sample to 4 bits per sample. 
 system parameters: 
  orbital altitude  	225 km  
  resolution  	typically 30 x 30 m on the surface  
  look angle range  	17 to 63 degrees from nadir  
  bandwidth  	10, 20 and 40 mhz 
  pulse repetition rate	  1395 to 1736 pulses per second  
  total science data  	50 hours/channel/mission  
  total instrument mass  	11,000 kg  
  dc power consumption  	3000 to 9000 w  
  sir-c home page  
 imaging radar home page 
