 reading area water authority 
	 reading area water authority:
	 filter plant renovations
	 pumping station upgrades 
			 main menu 
	 entech engineering, inc. was contracted by the city of reading to undertake a $26 million renovation of the city's antiquated water system.  a total of 72 separate projects was completed.  major elements of the renovation project include:
	  18th ward #4 tank replacement:   entech provided all engineering, design, and construction monitoring for this $1.5 million finished water storage tank.  the new 2.3 million gallon tank was constructed adjacent to the authority's old, 1930 era, riveted steel, lead painted storage tank, which was dismantled as part of the project.
	 entech conducted a detailed evaluation of steel vs. concrete tank type using a life-cycle cost analysis which took into account first costs and ongoing/future maintenance expenditures.  plans and specifications were then prepared for construction of a 77 ft. diameter, 66 ft. high post-tensioned concrete tank.  also included in the project was the  addition of an altitude valve, associated by-pass piping, isolation valves, and instrumentation, all contained in an underground vault.
	  filter plant renovations:   provided mechanical, civil, structural, electrical and architectural engineering design and construction inspection services for over $8.0 million worth of construction projects at the maiden creek filter plant.
	  projects included:  1) concrete and structural repairs for the coagulation channels, settling basins, and raw water conduits; 2) replacement of existing substation and distribution system; 3) electrical system upgrades to the entire building including indoor and outdoor lighting; 4) chlorine injection modifications and aqua ammonia feed system and bulk storage; 5) new carbon feed system; 6) replacement of dehumidification equipment; 7) boiler burner replacement; 8) new filter and backwash control system including motorized valves and electronic filter controls; 9) new traveling water screen and bulkhead replacement; 10) replacement of sand filter media; 11) new fiberglass reinforced sluice gates; 12) hydroelectric unit design and start-up/testing.
	  chlorine/ammonia building modifications:  prepared plans and specifications for the installation of a multi one-ton cylinder chlorine system complete with two new scales (2 one-ton cylinders per scale), an evaporator for implementation of liquid and/or gas chlorination, a 6,000 gallon aqua ammonia tank and two new metering pumps.  building renovations were designed to correct the pennsylvania department of environmental protection's code violations pertaining to the separation of feed/storage and adequate ventilation with chlorine sensors for personnel safety.
	  bulk lime silo system:   provided layout design, plans, and specifications for the installation of a 30-ton hydrated lime silo system, slurry pumps, trenching/piping, foundation and controls.
	  clearwater basin repairs:  provided mechanical, civil, and structural engineering design and construction inspection services for over $1.0 million worth of construction repair projects at the 10 mg underground clearwater basins.  projects included: partial floor slab removal and replacement, construction joint repairs and protection involving the installation of a flexible hypalon liner system, installation of two 30" emergency back-up discharge pipe lines and associated valving, and coordination of lime sludge removal and drying operations.
	also conducted complete structural analyses of column supports, ceiling arches, and foundations, and evaluated flow rates, capacity, chlorine contact time and water quality.
	  distribution system upgrades:  entech developed plans and specifications for a multitude of improvements/upgrades to the city's 209 mile distribution system.  entech designed and inspected over 30,000 lf of water main ranging in size from 6" to 36".  the distribution system upgrades include the elimination of dead ends via looping, replacing existing deteriorated and undersized mains with new larger diameter pipe, fire hydrant replacements, main line distribution valve replacements (30" and 36" sizes), etc. 
	 in addition, entech worked extensively with padot, conrail, and the pennsylvania dep to ensure proper permitting and safety of installation. examples of other distribution system projects include: transferring of services from low pressure to intermediate pressure, new pressure reducing valves, aerial and underground stream crossings, cathodic protection and the development of an operational pipe flow model of the entire distribution system.  total construction costs for the distribution system upgrades are in excess of $6.3 million.
	  maiden creek pumping station upgrades:  upgrade of the pumping station included structural and roof repairs, replacement of underground fuel tanks, new 900 hp diesel engine and speed reducer for a 17 mgd emergency pump, new pump discharge valves/operators, pump surge anticipator/relief system, new vacuum system, electrical system upgrades including new switchgear, lighting and emergency power system, electrification of an existing crane and new automated pump controls including a scada control system.  entech also provide structural analysis of crane and building supports, evaluation of electrical, heating and pump control systems, pump flow tests and flow metering calibration, and an energy study to reduce electrical consumption during peak hours.
	  hydraulic flow model:  entech developed a hydraulic model to simulate pipe network flow analysis of the city's 13 mgd system consisting of 210 miles of 4" to 36" water mains, four pressure zones, three pumping stations (each with two to five pumps), four pressure sustaining valves, and eleven water tanks/reservoirs ranging in  size from 500,000 to 26,000,000 gallons.
	  scada:  reading had a very old, unreliable, centralized reservoir monitoring system to track tank water levels.  this system was replaced with a state of the art supervisory control and data acquisition (scada) system which allows the city to accurately track and record not only tank levels, but also filter plant performance (filter status, flows, turbidities, etc).  transmission/distribution system pressures, residual chlorine and ph levels, transmission line flows, pump suction and discharge pressures, and other data, continuously.  operational control and status of pumps and storage tank altitude valves is also provided.  over 350 points are monitored or controlled by the system.
	  gis:   a geographic information system (gis) was developed for the city to quickly access distribution and service information on the computer.  the system also contains fire hydrant, valve, and line details in a comprehensive database which is easily accessed over conventional phone lines.  work orders and inventory tracking are an integral part of the system.
  return to the municipal list   
  we would be pleased to talk with you about your projects -  
 please e mail our vp of marketing,  matt lloyd or  
  water/wastewater business unit director  ros mcmullen   
 or give us a call at 610-373-6667 
 last updated september 25, 1996 
