    cpj news alert 
 |  news alert
index  |  cpj website  |  
  for immediate release 
 dec. 18, 1996 
   contact:   
  suzanne bilello 
 (212) 465-9344 x-104 
 cpj hails historic verdict in argentine libel case 
 judge's ruling against menem supports journalist's right
to 'fulfill duty' 
  new york, n.y., dec. 18  - the committee to protect journalists
(cpj) today hailed the court decision in argentina in a libel suit brought
by president carlos menem against the newspaper  pagina 12  as an
important victory for press freedom. judge maria laura garrigos de rebori
said in her dec. 17 decision in the more than two-year-old libel case that
columnist horacio verbitsky had only been doing his job as a journalist
when he wrote that the president had not been tortured as he claimed during
his arrest under the military dictatorship. 
 the judge also acquitted ernesto tiffenberg and fernando sokolowicz,
editors of  pagina 12  sued by president menem, and ordered menem
to pay the costs of the trial. in her verdict she said that freedom of
expression meant both the right of the press to inform and the right of
society to be informed. &quot;the journalist fulfilled the duty imposed
by his job when he said menem was not telling the truth,&quot; she said
in a television interview. 
 &quot;this is a major victory for the argentine press at a privotal
moment in the country's evolution as a democratic society,&quot; said william
a. orme, jr., cpj's executive director. &quot;we commend our argentine
colleagues in their principled pursuit of press freedom. this decision
is particularly important because the argentine press, which is held in
high esteem by the majority of people, has for years been under legal assault
by the menem government.&quot;  
 president menem sued  pagina 12  in october 1994 for publishing
the article by verbitsky that questioned the veracity of the president's
claims of torture. it was the fourth libel suit initiated by menem against
the paper, which also has been the target of lawsuits by members of the
menem government. cpj criticized the continued legal harassment of  pagina
12  in a letter to president menem in 1994. 
 a broad range of argentine journalists, writers, and officials had rallied
in support of  pagina 12 , including the association for the defense
of independent journalism, an independent press freedom group formed one
year ago to act on behalf of threatened or harassed journalists. scores
of journalists were among the thousands of people who were murdered or
disappeared under the military dictatorship in argentina that ended in
1983. 
  cpj is a nonpartisan, nonprofit organization devoted to the defense
of press freedom and the professional rights of journalists around the
world.   
  the information in this news alert may be freely copied
and distributed provided that it is properly attributed to the committee
to protect journalists.   
  |  news
alerts index  |  cpj website  |   
