  uare boat market report #1 
  search results   -->
 return to the  search page     -->
 united arab em. - pleasure craft - isa9207
  usdoc, international trade administration
 source:       usdoc, international trade administration
 source key:  it
 program key: it market
 program:     market research reports
 update:      monthly
 id number:   it market 111104782
 title:       united arab em. - pleasure craft - isa9207
 data type:   text
 end year:    1992
 updated:     09/17/92
 keywords 1:  
 | 9207
 | antiboycott|compliance
 | antiboycott|laws
 | best|prospects
 | cc520
 | competition
 | distribution
 | end|users
 | isa
 | isa9207
 | market|access
 | market|assessment
 | plb
 | pleasure  boats  and accessories
 | pleasure| boat |accessories
 | sporting and recreation goods
 | spt
 | trade|contacts
 | trade|promotion
 | united arab em.
 country:     
 | united arab em.
 | united arab emirates
 | u.a.e.
 | africa, near east and south asia
 | anesa
 | asia
 | middle east
 | middle eastern countries
 | middle eastern group
 | near east
 | near eastern countries
 | near eastern group
 | opec
 | organization of petroleum exporting countries
 text
 united arab em. - pleasure craft - isa9207
 summary
 this article is derived from a report titled: "the pleasure craft market in
 the united arab emirates, prepared by anne de souza, american consulate -
 dubai.  this article consists of 06 pages and contains the following
 subtopics:
      overview
      statistical data
      market assessment
      best sales prospects
      competitive situation
      market access
      trade promotion opportunities
 antiboycott compliance
 firms are reminded that the export administration amendments of 1977 and
 export administration regulations (15 c.f.r. part 369) prohibit certain
 forms of compliance with foreign boycotts, including furnishing information
 or entering into or implementing agreements.  this document or subsequent
 aspects of this transaction may involve conditions or requirements
 compliance with which is prohibited.  violators of u.s. antiboycott law are
 subject to severe penalties including fine, imprisonment and revocation of
 export license privileges.  firms are further reminded that any united
 states person receiving a request for the furnishing of information, the
 entering into or implementation of agreements, or the taking of any other
 action which furthers or supports restrictive trade practices or boycotts
 must report such receipt to the department of commerce, in accordance with
 15 c.f.r. 369.6.
 information concerning u.s. antiboycott laws and how to comply with them is
 available from the office of antiboycott compliance, room 6098, u.s.
 department of commerce, washington, d.c. 20230, (202) 377-2381 and from the
 office of general counsel, room 2010, u.s. department of the treasury,
 washington, d.c. 20220, (202) 566-5569.
 a. overview:
 over the past few years the uae has developed into a popular base for
 businessmen, tourists and industrialists alike.
 worldwide the uae and dubai in particular is becoming known as an ideal
 location for trade investment, distribution and manufacturing operations, as
 well as a first-class holiday destination featuring many of the finest
 leisure facilities available anywhere in the world.
 the sea-faring traditions of the gulf are well known and even though
 traditional sailing ships, dhows continue to ply their trade across the
 arabian gulf, today's vessels are dominated by the power  boats  and pleasure
 craft which have become very popular in the uae.  given the coastline
 attributes of this part of the world it is hardly surprising that
 watersports should be such a popular past-time here.
 a number of u.s. pleasure craft firms are represented in the uae, such as
 the boston whaler, glastron, bayliner, chapparal and larson, but u.s. firms
 can still find capable businessmen interested in generating sales for
 products new to this market.  the water jet ski has become very popular in
 the uae and is a fast moving product line.
 b.  market assessment:
 the uae's pleasure craft market is based on the desire of individual
 nationals/expatriates to have their own pleasure craft.  the sea is
 accessible within an hour's drive for the majority of the residents of the
 uae.  local production is of a very high standard and offers quality at a
 very competitive price.  exports of local manufacture are made on a regular
 basis to all the gcc countries and even to france, the maldive islands and
 finland.
 the uae has a long coastline with no lakes or inland waterways.  therefore
 all pleasure craft are used in the sea, and most models purchased are
 seagoing vessels.  traditionally, low budget  boat  owners had to be content
 with small rowboats which were sometimes fitted with an inboard or outboard
 engine.  today, they have the option to purchase inflatable  boats  or small
 crafts which are light, fast and reliable.  lightweight  boats  are ideal for
 easy transport.  however, inflatable  boats  are not very popular here as they
 are not very good for use on the open sea under rough weather conditions.
 these are mainly used for scuba diving.  another factor which works against
 inflatable  boats  is price.  a good quality inflatable  boat  with accessories
 could cost almost the same as a small craft manufactured locally.
 between 1988 and 1990 annual imports of pleasure crafts to the uae grew from
 u.s. $ 5.3 million to u.s. $ 13.7 million, an average annual rate of 60% per
 year.  the market's growth is expected to continue at an estimated average
 of 50% over the next 2-3 years.
 total uae imports during 1988-1990 were:
 1988    u.s. $ 5.32 million, of which $ 1.9 million was for yachts and other
         pleasure vessels and $ 3.3 million for commercial vessels.
 1989    u.s. $ 8.2 million, of which $ 3.2 million was for yachts and other
         pleasure vessels and $ 5.0 million for commercial vessels.
 1990    u.s. $ 13.6 million, of which $ 4.5 million was for yachts and other
         pleasure vessels and $ 9.1 million for commercial vessels.
 the uae's total market for pleasure craft in 1990 was estimated to be nearly
 u.s. $ 27.2 million.  it is estimated that approximately 50% percent of this
 market demand is met by local production.  the total market appears to have
 an annual growth rate of over 50%.
 locally manufactured  boats  are popular as they are of a very high quality
 and available at very competitive prices.  at present there is a joint
 venture between a british company and a local company.  another japanese
 firm (yamaha) have just started a joint venture with their local agents
 building their own  boats  in dubai with production starting early september
 1992.  market sources predict that  boat  prices will drop in the near future
 due to the stiff competition of these joint venture operations in the uae.
 though  boats  manufactured locally are of a very high standard, the local
 market in itself is not very big.  market sources estimate that
 approximately 60% of these  boats  are exported to other gulf countries
 including saudi arabia, kuwait and bahrain.  it speaks volumes when one
 considers that some scandinavian countries are buying  boats  which are
 manufactured in the uae as it is comparable to those manufactured in
 europe.  it is cheaper to produce a  boat  locally than in europe due to low
 cost labor.  the main deterrent to increased export sales to ec countries is
 high custom duties levied on non-ec manufacturers.
 american  boats  are not price competitive in the uae any more when you take
 into consideration high shipping charges.  american companies will have to
 seriously consider setting up joint ventures or their own manufacturing
 plants in the uae if they want to maintain/increase market share.
 the important factors which have a bearing on who succeeds in this market,
 are price, service, promotion and commitment to the local agent.  support
 and quick response from suppliers are essential to success.
  boat  rental firms have been operating in the uae for approximately 2 years.
 in popular demand for hire are water jet skis.
 c.  competitive situation:
 in the coming years, u.s. exporters will be well advised not to ignore
 several new competitors that have appeared on the scene and are working to
 increase their market share.
 during the period 1988-1990, the u.s. share and its major competitors stood
 as follows:
                 u.k.     italy     u.s.     pakistan     taiwan      japan
 1988           3.47        -      49.69       14.97        -          9.24
 1989          14.85      33.22    19.76       10.0         -          3.97
 1990          25.84      24.21    22.65       10.19       3.82        3.65
 domestic production:
 the domestic  boat  industry is medium-sized and only directs 40% percent of
 its output to the local market.  the other 60% are exported mainly to saudi
 arabia, kuwait, bahrain, oman, qater with a small percentage to france, the
 maldive islands and finland.
 there are currently approximately 40 boatbuilders in the entire uae.
 however, the local shipyards are handicapped by the lack of a national motor
 manufacturer, which affects their competitiveness.  for example, of the u.s.
 $43.65 outboard engine motors sold in 1990, all were imported.
 u.s. firms, such as scat hovercraft, sunfish/laser inc., wildcat watercraft,
 performance catamarans inc., boston whaler, glastron, chapparal have a
 presence in the uae market.  their major competitors are kawasaki and yamaha
 of japan, bombardier seadoo from canada.  most firms carry a limited volume
 of stock while some act only as suppliers.  when local firms act as
 suppliers they usually place orders with the company only after they receive
 an order from a customer.  on an average showrooms in dubai have on display
 5/6 crafts of local manufacture and 3-5 different kinds of water jet skis.
 according to industry contacts, the advantage that u.s. firms used to enjoy
 based on quality, reputation and service is fast being eroded as prices
 which have always been an important factor are no longer competitive.
 promotion is also important but  boat  enthusiasts appear quite knowledgeable
 about the subject from reading reports and tests in foreign  boat  magazines.
 local sources say that a boating magazine being prepared in the uae is in
 the offing.
 for all cases, including pleasure  boats  and marine engines, all
 distributors/ agents provide service through their workshop, and usually
 offer a 6 month to a one-year guarantee.  local manufacturers generally
 offer a 2 year guarantee for the hull.  effective and well organized service
 is considered to be very important.
 cost is an important competitive factor particularly in the lower to
 upper-middle price-range of the pleasure craft market.  price is less of a
 consideration at the top end of the market where purchasers are less likely
 to be concerned about discretionary income and expenditures.
 other key competitive factors in the pleasure craft market are durability,
 safety, quality, style, design, speed, capacity, and accessories.  it is not
 easy to sell a used  boat  in the uae so the resale value is not a very
 important factor when buying a new  boat  though local market sources say that
 it is not uncommon for a local manufacturer of repute to be approached for
  boats  which have been traded in for newer and faster models.
 d.  market access:
 the commercial climate in the uae is one of free trade and competitiveness.
 there are no impediments to entering the market nor are there any laws
 regulating the imports of pleasure craft.  english is the commercial
 language alongside arabic but arabic takes precedence in official documents
 with government departments.
 normal working hours are from 0730 or 0800 to 1330, except thursday, when
 they close at 1200, for all government and public institutions (municipal
 offices, banks etc), while the private sector resumes for an afternoon
 session, usually from around 1600 to 1930.  some companies in the private
 sector have a five day week with the weekends usually being thursday and
 friday or friday and saturday.  all government business must be accomplished
 during the five morning hours.  (it is not unusual for a civil servant to
 operate a private business during evening hours.)  no offices open for
 friday, the day of rest.
 in order to enter the uae market, u.s. firms must appoint an agent or a
 distributor.  local representation is a legal condition for doing business
 in the market.  however, care is advised in the selection of an agent.  in
 selection of an agent.  u.s. suppliers are reminded that the u.a.e. federal
 agency law no. 18 of 1981 and its 1989 amendments are applicable and should
 be reviewed carefully prior to appointing a local agent.  the agency law
 favors the local traders and cancellation of agency agreements and contracts
 are difficult and costly, regardless of the severance clauses included..
 frequent visits and strong agent support by the manufacturer both before and
 after the sale are the basic ingredients for success.  the us&fcs can assist
 in identifying reputable representatives.
 local sources say that the u.s. market share has been lost partly due to
 lack of loyalty on the part of american companies to the local agent.  it is
 important to bear in mind that agents/distributors spend a lot of time and
 money in promoting a product in this area and when the product gains
 popularity, and an agency agreement has been signed, any inquiry received by
 the u.s. firm directly from any individual/company from the uae should be
 routed through the local agent.
 duty for import of pleasure craft is the usual 2%.
 pleasure crafts are not presently required to be registered in the uae.
 local market sources say that very shortly the uae federal ministry will be
 enforcing all owners of pleasure crafts in the uae to have their  boats 
 registered.  they expect this to be put in effect by end this year.
 distribution and business practices:  domestic manufacturers sell through
 distributors and also directly to end users.  imported  boats  are generally
 retailed by distributors who carry a full spectrum of product lines.  these
 importers tend to represent more than one manufacturer, frequently three or
 four, specializing in a specific product segment.  the ability to meet
 specific client needs for optional equipment, timely delivery, as well as
 price are important factors to consider when selling u.s. pleasure crafts in
 the uae.
 no safety standards are set locally but the trend is to go by the standards
 set by the u.s. coastguard.
 approximately 10 marinas are in the uae which are usually run by the large 5
 star hotels or by  boat  clubs.  charges for mooring are high and vary in
 price from marina to marina.  the charge is usually based on footage and on
 average could cost u.s. $ 1635/- per annum for a  boat  upto 20 feet.  this
 charge apart from mooring the  boat  would usually include maintenance,  boat 
 washing and sometimes even battery charge.
 many people who do not want to pay the high costs of berthing their  boats  at
 marinas moor them on buoys at sea, or keep them on trailers outside their
 homes.  sailing  boats  can also be kept on beaches.  public slipways for
 launching powerboats are available.
 e.  trade promotion opportunities:
 there is a wide range of services available for the u.s. exporter interested
 in entering the uae market.  among these are:
 agent/distributor service (ads): assists in locating an agent.
 world trader data report (wtdr): provides credit information on potential
 agents.
 comparison shopping service: identifies the product's potential
 competitiveness in the market and also the best potential distributors.
 u.s. companies may display and promote their products in the only biennial
 exhibition held in dubai, uae.  details are:
 exhibition      :          middle east international  boat  show
 organizers      :          trade centre management company
                            p.o. box 9292, dubai, uae
 telephone       :          971-4-3064052
 fascimile       :          971-4-3064089
 contact         :          james kfouri/sandra royan
 proposed dates  :          may 19-22, 1993
 f.  best sales prospects:
 inboard powered  boats  (excluding houseboats)
 inboard outdrive  boats  (excluding houseboats)
 motorboats, cabin  boats , motoryachts
 motorboats other than outboard motors
 sailboats, with or without auxiliary motors
 inflatable pleasure craft
 g.  statistical data:
 u.s. $ millions               1988    1989    1990     estimated average
                                                        annual real growth
                                                        over next three years*
 import market                  5.3     8.3     13.6     approx. 50%
 plus production                3.1     5.3     15.2
 less exports/re-exports**      2.9     5.9     17.2
 equals total market demand     5.5     7.6     11.6
 imports from u.s.              9.7     5.9     11.3
 *  inflation rate assumed=  3%
 ** based on estimates of exports/re-exports as follows:
            1988= 34%; 1989= 43%; 1990= 59%
 exchange rate used throughout= 1 usd = 3.673 dirhams
 1990 import market share (u.s. and major competitors)
 u.k.                            25.84%
 italy                           24.21%
 u.s.                            22.65%
 pakistan                        10.19%
 receptivity to u.s. products (1=lowest, 5=highest): 4  (very receptive)
return to recreational boat building industry home page 
