 cpj news alert 
|  news alert index  
|  cpj website  |
 for immediate release  
22 july 1996 
 contact:  
  kakuna kerina  
(212) 465-1004, x103 
 cpj denounces continued imprisonment of three journalists in c&ocirc;te d'ivoire 
new york--the committee to protect journalists (cpj) today denounced the continued imprisonment of ivoirien journalists  abou drahamane sangar&eacute;,   emmanuel   kor&eacute;  and  freedom neruda  of the independent daily newspaper  la voie , and appealed to the ivoirien government for their release.  
on 18 december 1995,  la voie  published a satirical article suggesting that the presence of president henri konan b&eacute;di&eacute; brought bad luck to the ivoirien soccer team when he attended the african champions cup final, which the local team lost.  director of publications  sangar&eacute;  and reporter  kor&eacute;  were arrested on 21 december 1995 and sentenced on 28 december 1995 to two years in prison for "offenses against the head of state."   la voie  was also fined three million cfa francs (us$ 6,000) and banned for three months.   la voie  deputy-editor  neruda  was arrested on 2 january 1996 and sentenced to a two-year prison term on 11 january 1996. 
on 12 june 1996, an appeals court in c&ocirc;te d'ivoire confirmed the two-year jail sentences imposed on the three journalists.  they are now appealing to the supreme court. 
"president bedie's attack on the  la voie  journalists was his first official act towards the private press, just months after being elected to office, and firmly establishing his government's continued intolerance for press freedom," says kakuna kerina, program coordinator for africa.  "during his campaign, bedie routinely imprisoned journalists and banned private newspapers, thus effectively outlawing free expression in cote d'ivoire." 
since president b&eacute;di&eacute; took office in december 1993, there has been an increase in prosecutions against independent journalists which have resulted in sentences of up to three years imprisonment.  physical attacks on ivoirien journalists have also occurred: in june 1995, mr.  sangar&eacute;  was savagely beaten by four policeman at the order of security minister general ouassenan kone for an article he wrote in the satirical weekly,  bol kotch , about the minister's treatment of student unrest in the country.  the beating took place in minister kone's office, and in his presence. 
cpj contends that the sentences handed down against  sangar&eacute; ,  kor&eacute;  and  neruda  are unjustified and excessive.  having previously protested these convictions to president b&eacute;di&eacute; on numerous occasions, cpj reiterates its calls for the reversal of the journalists' convictions, and   their immediate,   unconditional release.  
the information in this news alert  may be freely copied and distributed provided that it is properly attributed to the committee to protect journalists.
|  news alerts index  
|  cpj website  |
