analysis of 1995 acu ratings of congress
analysis of 1995 acu ratings of congress
a note on vote selection:
four  categories of votes.  as the umbrella lobbying
group of the conservative movement, acu
tracks a wide range of issues before the congress,
ranging from taxes to abortion, from ballistic
missile defenses to term limits.  accordingly, the
votes we choose to rate are broken down into
four general categories:  economic and budget matters;
social and cultural issues; defense and
foreign policy matters; and issues of institutional
reform.  we endeavor to analyze a roughly
equal number of votes from each category, so that
we can obtain a comprehensive picture of an
individual member's ideological predisposition, based
on votes cast.
votes rated on ideological distinction, not &quot;most
important.&quot;  within those four broad
areas, acu selects the votes it rates based on a
simple criterion:  does the vote reflect a clear
ideological distinction in the congress?  thus, the
votes we select to rate are not necessarily
those considered the &quot;most important&quot; or
the &quot;key&quot; votes of any given congressional session.
and they may not be votes we took a position or lobbied
on during floor consideration.  they are
chosen for one reason, and one reason only:  to provide
a clear picture of where individual
members of congress stand on an ideological scale.
thus, for example, the 1993 vote on nafta was not
rated, though it clearly was one of the most
important votes of the session, in terms of legislative
impact.  the nafta vote was omitted
from the 1993 ratings because it was not an ideologically-driven
vote:  many conservatives voted
yes, while a significant number of conservatives
voted no.  similarly, many liberals voted no, but
a significant number voted yes.
this simple but important criterion is helpful in
understanding any perceived differences between
a member's acu rating and his or her rating from
other organizations which provide ratings of
congress, such as the afl-cio, the christian coalition,
or the chamber of commerce.
vote breakdown.  for the first session of the 104th
congress, we rated 23 votes in the house,
and 22 votes in the senate.  in the house, two votes
were double-weighted:  final passage on
term limits, and the balanced budget act.  in the
senate, one vote was double-weighted:  the
balanced budget act.
the breakdown is as follows:
house                   
economic/budget           	6                      
social/cultural                	7               
defense/foreign policy     	4                     
institutional reform          	6                  
senate 
economic/budget           	6 
social/cultural                	8 
defense/foreign policy     	2 
institutional reform          	6
what do the data show?
two types of analysis.  we did two types of analysis
on the vote data:  the first, a &quot;snapshot&quot;
look at the congress in the first session of the
104th congress; the second, a &quot;moving picture&quot;
look at vote trends over the last ten years.
104th congress more conservative.  the snapshot analysis
reveals that the results of the 1994
elections, in which republicans took control of both
house and senate for the first time in four
decades, are reflected in the ideological vote patterns.
 both house and senate showed significant
increases in their &quot;conservative quotient,&quot;
as would be expected.
in the house, there were 31 perfect conservative
scores of 100; there were 9 perfect liberal scores
of 0.  of the 73 republican freshmen, there were
15 perfect 100s; thus, though they represent less
than one-fifth of the entire house, they accounted
for just less than half of all the perfect 100s.
the most conservative democrat in the house was ralph
hall, who scored a 76.  the most
liberal republican in the house was connie morella,
who scored a 25.
fyi:  newt gingrich scored a 100; dick armey scored
a 92; tom delay scored an 83; john
boehner scored an 88; dick gephardt scored a 12;
david bonior scored a 12; vic fazio scored
an 8.
in the senate, there were 7 perfect conservative
scores of 100; there were 11 perfect liberal scores
of 0.
the perfect conservative senators were kyl, smith,
helms, faircloth, gramm, nickles, and
inhofe.  the perfect liberal senators were boxer,
inouye, akaka, sarbanes, levin, kerrey,
lautenberg, bingaman, moynihan, leahy, and murray.
the most conservative democrat in the senate was
a tie between jim exon and fritz hollings,
both of whom scored a 35.  the most liberal republican
in the senate was jim jeffords, who
scored a 23.  
fyi:  bob dole scored an 91; trent lott scored a
96; thad cochran scored an 83; don nickles
scored a 100; tom daschle scored a 4; wendell ford
scored a 13; ted kennedy scored a 4; chris
dodd scored a 4.  
congress becoming more ideologically polarized. 
the moving picture analysis, in which
voting trends over the last ten years were analyzed,
provides evidence for the conventional
wisdom that the congress is becoming more polarized
along ideological lines.
republicans becoming more conservative, democrats
more liberal.  in both house and
senate, the analysis indicates that incoming freshman
republicans are voting more conservative
than the departing republicans, and that incoming
freshman democrats are voting more liberal
than the departing democrats.  (use charts for elaboration.)
opposition provokes partisan and ideological unity.
 a close analysis of the 1993 and 1995
vote patterns reveals interesting party unity scores.
 in 1993, when the democrats controlled the
white house for the first time in 12 years, long-suppressed
liberal legislation came to the floor
for votes.  even liberal republicans couldn't stomach
some of this legislation, and they voted
with their more conservative republican colleagues
in opposition.  as a result, party unity scores
for republicans were much higher than normal, with
most republicans posting higher
conservative scores than would otherwise have been
expected. 
in 1995, the exact opposite occurred:  with conservative
legislation coming to the floor for the
first time in four decades, it was the democrats
who showed greater ideological unity in
opposition, thereby resulting in most democrats posting
higher liberal scores than would
otherwise have been expected.  meanwhile, liberal
republicans fractured, resulting in some
scores for liberal republicans that were even lower
than usual.
